---
layout: post
title: "Consent"
date: 2020-04-22 19:00
category: femputermanchine
tags: [larry-potter]
description: "damned either way"
thumbnail_id:	""
comments_id:	"56"
published: true
lastmod:	2020-04-24 10:44
---
[//]: # (4/24/20  -tweaks, new content)
[//]: # (4/23/20  -I changed formatting)


## dedication

to any pale face who thought if they'd sit in the sun, they'd turn to a rose

## cast of characters 
* 'HERMIONE'

top of her class, aspiring spellcaster

* 'LARRY'

younger brother of Hermione. middling in ability

* 'R'

Larry's classmate

* 'CEDRIC'

upperclassman

## open

### begin ###

<i>flyby of suburban town in somewhere, America. April. visuals are idyllic ~ tending toward "a little too perfect" with musical hinting. through the montage, we see the sun is setting. </i>

<i>The flybys get closer to the ground and pan over CEDRIC, 25, out for a jog. He is a young man with soft light-brown hair. He has a tense expression on his face as he jogs on the pressed dirt edging the street and wilderness. By the montage, he has been jogging from afternoon to the twilight. </i>

<i>A car is driving down the street. The car is being driven by HERMIONE, 18-20YO. In the passenger seat is LARRY, 17, who is bending around the seat to talk to R, seated anxiously in the backseat of the car. It is not apparent what the boys are talking about. Hermione is tense driving on the curved, forested road. </i>

<i>She is pushing the limits of her driving ability and makes a mistake. Around a bend, she doesn't turn enough and she slips off the road and strikes CEDRIC, sending him backward into the woody brush. </i>

####LARRY

> HERMIONE, DID YOU JUST HIT SOMEONE?

<i>HERMIONE is terrified. She stops the car and runs to the body she's struck. Larry and R leave the car and follow behind her. Between the setting sun and the surrounding trees, it is getting darker. Ron is hunched over, already disturbed. He turns his cellphone on flashlight.</i>

####HERMIONE

> OH-- 

<i>HERMIONE brings her hands to her face in shock, and then she tries to pull at the broken brush around CEDRIC.</i>

> IT'S CEDRIC!

####LARRY

> SHI--

<i>LARRY stops mid-word as we see HERMIONE is trying to pick up the unconscious CEDRIC. He and R rush forward to assist laying CEDRIC on the ground.</i>

<i>This is the first close-up of CEDRIC's face. He looks the part of an high-achieving, now-graduate, of the school shared between the four young adults. His face is relaxed, as if asleep. The three recognize the blow to his torso is a mortal wound. </i>

<i>HERMIONE twitches to hold back tears. She struggles to get words out.</i>

####HERMIONE

> I... 

####LARRY

> (while looking around for a car) WHY WON'T ANYONE...

####HERMIONE

> (scared)

<i>The scene cuts to CEDRIC'S STUDIO APARTMENT. He is collapsed face-down on the floor, wounds healed, clothes clean. He is breathing, if shallowly. The window has broken; a tree branch has shattered glass on the floor. </i>

<i>CEDRIC is bodily exhausted but now mentally awake.</i>

<b>ENTER FLASHBACK TO LAST NIGHT</b>

<i>HERM,L,R all crowded into shot, starts as blurry then slowly comes to focus. The teens are crowded in close to CEDRIC as he regains consciousness. He is, again, uninjured and his clothes are clean.</i>

<i>HERM,L,R help CEDRIC to his feet. He is out of breath but otherwise seems okay. </i>

####HERMIONE

> CEDRIC... ARE YOU OKAY?

<I>As CEDRIC stands still, he regains his breath.</I>

<i>L,R look at each other awkwardly as all four stand still, quietly aware of the silence.</i>

<i>As CEDRIC regains strength, he clenches his fist.</i>

####CEDRIC

> (pointing at Hermione) YOU. (PAUSE) YOU HIT ME WITH YOUR CAR!

####HERMIONE

> (struggling to maintain eye contact)

<i>CEDRIC takes a step of aggression toward HERM. The sound of his foot on dirt ignites them to action. They are unable to mask their fear.</i>

<i>L,R surround HERM defensively. CEDRIC holds his position, holds, and then releases tension. He looks down at his hands.</i>

####LARRY

> HERMIONE SAVED YOUR LIFE!

####CEDRIC

> (grimaces) 

####LARRY

> WHAT IF IT HADN'T HAVE BEEN US? HUH? WHAT THEN? YOU JUST WOULDA BLED OUT TO DEATH! YOU HA--

####CEDRIC

> I DON'T HAVE TO DO ANYTHING!

###PAUSE FLASHBACK###

<i>CEDRIC has not moved. The broken window is in his periphery and he observes it but still does not move.</i>

###RESUME FLASHBACK###

####CEDRIC

> ... BLOOD -- MAGICK?

<i>CEDRIC is in disbelief but he is still furious. HERMIONE stands still as if embarrassed.</i>

####CEDRIC

> (looks at L,R) AND YOU, AND YOU, ...

<i>CEDRIC looks down at himself.</i>

> BROUGHT ME BACK ?

<i>THE THREE TEENS stand sheepishly in agreement.</i>

###PAUSE FLASHBACK###

<i>CEDRIC is still laying on the linoleum. He brings his hand to his head to fight headache. Slowly he rises to vertical and remains seated. He appears to be looking at the broken window.</i>


