---
layout: post
title: "GOTH 002"
date: 2020-08-21 19:42
category: femputermanchine
tags: [skit, fpmcmain-goth]
description: "Lenny, 'the Patient' Dentist"
published: true
lastmod:	2020-08-25 19:42
---
[//]: # ( 8/25/20  -added)

SETTING: 'Old Goth Estate', Neucrest<br/>
YEAR: 2020, autumn

<center>~</center>

Cassandra Goth and her younger brother are sitting together in the Old Goth Estate, a relatively decrepit house that has been part of the Goth holdings for generations.

The house shows some signs of life; the walls have a fresh coat of paint. The siblings are sitting on the floor looking at Alexander's cellphone.

``` 
ALEXANDER 

JUST GIVE ME A SEC TO PULL UP WHAT I FOUND THE OTHER NIGHT.
``` 

CASSANDRA sits quietly.

```
ALEXANDER 

AH, HERE IT IS. THE DENTAL RECORDS, YEAH. THESE ARE COOL.
```

ALEX gives his cellphone to CASSANDRA. 

On the screen are a number of mugshot-style portraits of young men. They are holding up cards with their names and the date printed on them. One might think they were pictures of criminals, except for one thing --

Each young man is baring his teeth. And not just any teeth, but fangs characteristic of the Vampire.

```
ALEXANDER 

THERE WAS THIS GUY, LENNY, WHO WAS AN UNDERCOVER COP POSING AS A DENTIST FOR VAMPIRES.
```

CASSANDRA continues to scroll through the photos. Down, down, down, there are many of them.

```
ALEXANDER 

YEAH, SORRY, HIS IS NEAR THE BOTTOM. HIS DAD IS IN THERE TOO.
```

Finally, CASSANDRA stops scrolling when she sees a shockingly familiar face. But it's not Kevin, it's his father: 'Vincent Marscapone', dated March 15, 1995.

The man has an intense glare. CASSANDRA shivers. His still face and dark eyes. His likeness to his son is uncanny, except for a serious frown and a missing tooth.

```
ALEXANDER 

LOOKS JUST LIKE HIM, RIGHT?
```

CASSANDRA continues to scroll. The next picture is labeled CEDRIC D'IGGORY, March 17, 1995. He has light hair, unusual in the lineup, though it's hard to tell exactly since the photographs are in black and white. He's also missing a fang; the top-left. 

CEDRIC, also unlike the rest, has a twisted sort of smile as he bares his fangs. 

CASSANDRA is beginning to regret ever asking her brother for this as she scrolls to the next portrait:

<center><I>KEVIN VINCENT MARSCAPONE</I></center>

But to her surprise, this is not the face she expects. This is a child's face, and one even younger than her brother. Is he eight? Nine?

The boy has long fangs, yes, but his incisors are incomplete as well. Just one front tooth. And by the look of it, he's missing other teeth as well.

And he has a strange sadness. Yes, the eyes are soft and wandering, a dreaminess she's come to associate with the young man. And yet even photographed, she can't look into the eyes for too long and she puts the phone down.

<center>~</center>

*****
<div class="fpmc-nav">

<span class="fpmc-nav-prev"><a href="{{ 'goth-i' | prepend: site.baseurl }}">PREVIOUS</a></span> 

<!--<span class="fpmc-nav-next"><a href="{{ 'aegwain-ix' | prepend: site.baseurl }}">NEXT</a></span> --> 



</div>
*****
