---
layout: fpmcpost
title: "McCOY X"
category: femputermanchine
date: 2021-05-05 10:20
description: "in which the doctor looks for his doll"
tags: [skit, fpmcmain-mccoy, act-i]
published: true
lastmod: 2021-05-05 10:59
---
[//]: # ( 05/05/21  -added)

*****

MC ARRIVES AT THE MAGNOLIA PROMENADE

HE YELLS AT THE DOOR

MCC: VANESSA? MEIFENG. WHATEVER. YOU. CALL. YOURSELF. YOU. COME ANSWER. THE DOOR. RIGHT.....NOW.

WHEN SHE COMES TO CALL, SHE IS WEARING A SLINKY BLACK DRESS

MCC: VANESSA. MEIFENG. WHATEVER--STUPID--THING.NAME YOU.ARE.GOING.BY.THESE.DAYS...

VAN: YOU RANG DOCTOR?

MCC: THATS.DOCTOR.MCCOY.TO.YOU.

VAN: OK DCTR MCCOY.

MCC: LENARD!

VAN: LENARD?

MCC: USE MY FULL NAME. IT'S DOCTOR.LENARD.MCCOY.

MCC: WHERE.IS.MY.AVAELLE.EASTON.

VAN: AVAELLE.EASTON?

MCC: YESSSSSSS.MY.AVAELLE.EASTON.

VAN: AVAELLE.EATON?

MCC: NO.YOU.HARLOT.

MCC: MY.AVAELLE.EASTON.

VAN: THECAT?

MCC: YESSSSSSSS

VAN: THECAT'SNOTHOME. I-THOUGHT-YOU-WERE-TO-ASK-ABOUT-THE-DOLLS

MCC: DOLLZ?

VAN: UM...

MCC: THINK.VANESSSA.MEIFENG.WHATEVER.STUPID/NAME/YOU/HAPPEN/TO/GO/BY/THESE/DAYS...

VAN: YOU-DIDN'T-TAKE-IT-HOME.WITH.YOU? I-THOUGHT-YOU-ALWAYS-TOOK-YOUR-TOYS-HOME-WITH-YOU-EACH-NIGHT-YOU-LEAVE-OUR...

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: VANNESSA.

MCC: MEIFENG.

MCC: WHATEVER.DUMASS.NAME.YOU.SELECTED.FOR.YOURSELF.

MCC: NOW.THINK;GIRL.THINK.

MCC: WHERE.IS.MY.DOLL?

VAN: AVAELLE.EASTON?

VAN: UM LET ME THINK. AVAELLE EASTON AVAELLE EASTON AVAELLE EASTON WHERE ISSSSSSSS

VAN: WRONG!

MCC: I.LEFT.HER.AT.THIS.HOUSE.SO.THAT.SHE.COULD.TEACH.YOUR.STUPID.ASS.HOW.TO.DRINK.BLOOD

VAN: ISN'T THAT PORNOGRAPHIC? DRINKING BLOOD?

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: VANESSA.

MCC: MEIFENG.

MCC: WHATEVER

MCC: STUPID

NAME

YOU
ARE
GOING
BY
THESE
DAYS...

WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH MY STUFFIE?

VAN: YOUR... UH... STUFFY?

MCC: THAT IS CORRECT.

MY

STUFFY

HER NAME IS "AVAELLE EASTON" 

AND.SHE'S.A.DEAR.FRIEND.

NOT THAT
YOU
WOULD UNDERSTAND ANYTHING ABOUT THE MEANING OF FRIENDSHIP.

MEIFENG
VANESSA
IF.THAT.IS.YOUR.TRUE.NAME...

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY

MCC: WRONG!!!

WHEN.YOU
CAME TO ME
WITH THE INTENTION
OF
CROSSING OVER
I GAVE YOU MY

VAN: AVAELLE EASTON?

MCC: WRONG!!!!!

MCC: I.WANT.MY

VAN: STUFFIE?

MCC: WRONG!!!

VAN: I THOUGHT AVAELLE EASTON WAS YOUR GIRLFRIEND AND I GOT JEALOUS.

MCC: OH.

SO.YOU
DO
KNOW.
WHAT HAPPENED TO MY STUFFIE.

VAN: INDEEDAROONIE. I THREW HER AWAY.

MCC: WRONG!!

VAN: I WANTED YOU TO TRAIN ME DOCTOR! IT JUST SEEMED UNFAIR THAT THE MENTOR YOU LEFT ME WITH WASN'T HERSELF ALSO A

MCC: VAMPIRE?!

VAN: YEAH THAT'S THE WORD, VAMPRESS

MCC: WRONG!!!

VAN: YOU.WANTED
ME
TO TRAIN
YOUR
SORRY
ASS?

VAN: YOU ARE AN ELDER ARE YOU NOT? THAT'S WHAT YOUR...

MCC: WRONG!!!

I.AM.CALLED...

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY!

MCC: WRONG!!!!

VAN: DO YOU WANT YOUR DOLL BACK?

VAN: AVAELLE EASTON??

MCC: WRONG!!!

MCC: COULD.YOU.JUST
GO.
UPSTAIRS.
ANNNNNNND
GETTTTTT
ITTTTTT

VAN: UMMMMMMMMMM

MCC: WRONG!!!!

MCC: I.LEFT.YOU.IN.THIS.HOUSE.SO.THAT.YOU.COULDDDDD

VAN: BECOME A VAMPRESS LIKE THE OTHERS?

VAN: BUT. LIKE.

HOW DOES THAT EVEN MAKE SENSE

CUZ

I JUST THOUGHT YOU WANTED UR "STUFFIE"

MCC: WRONG!!!!!

MCC: I.DO.NOT.JUST.WANT.MY.STUFFY.I.WANTED....

VAN: TO MAKE ME A VAMPRESS?

MCC: WRONG--AGAIN!

MCC: SO.ARE.YOU.TELLING.ME.THAT.MEIFENG.VANESSA.WHATEVER.NAME.IT.IS.YOU.GO.BY.THESE...

VAN: DAYS?

MCC: WRONG!!!

MCC: AVAELLE.EASTON.MMMMMY.FRIEND.WAS.SUPPOSED.TO...

VAN: BECOME A VAMPRESS?

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: YOOOOU.WERE.SUPPOSED...TO...

VAN: KILL PEOPLE?

MCC: WRONG!!!!

MCC: VANESSA.MEIFENG.SWEETIE.HONEYCAKES.

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY?

MCC: YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO LEARN HOW TO DRINK BLOOD.

VAN: BY SUNLIGHT?

MCC: WRONG!!!

MCC: YOU.WERE.A.VAMPIRE
VANESSA.
MEIFENG.
YOU.
ARE.
SUPPOSED.
TO.
DRINK...

VAN: AT NIGHT? YEAH, I THINK I HEARD THAT SOMEWHEREZ

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: VANESSA.MEIFENG.SWEETIE.HONEYCAKES.

MCC: MY.STUFFY.

VAN: AVAELLE EASTON.

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: YOU.THOUGHT.SHE.COULDN'T 

TRAIN.YOU
BECAUSE
SHE
WAS
A..

VAN: GIRL?

MCC: WRONG!

MCC: VANESSA.
MEIFENG.
SWEETIE.
HONEYCAKES.

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY?

MCC: LENARD.

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY........

MCC: IT'S.LENARD!

VAN: DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY!

MCC: VANESSA.
MEIFENG.
SWEETIE.
HONEYCAKES.

COULD.
YOU.
PLEASE.
GO.UPSTAIRS
AND.FETCH
MY
DOLL.

VAN: "AVAELLE.EASTON"

I...UH

THOUGHT YOU ALWAYS TOOK ALL YOUR STUFFED ANIMALS HOME WITH YOU WHEN YOU SPENT THE NIGHT HERE

MCC: VANESSA. MEIFENG. SWEETIE.

VAN: AVAELLE EASTON?

WE OUUGHTA HAVE SOMETHING OF YOURS IN THIS HOUSE...

WILL ONE OF YOUR OTHER ANIMALS DO?

JUST-SAY-THE-MAGIC-WORD!

MCC: I.want.my.fie.fi.

VAN: UH...

DOCTOR LENARD MCCOY?

MCC: I TOLD YOU TO CALL ME...

VAN: LENARD?

MCC: I WANT FIFI!!
